Kernel, Drivers and Firmwares:

Kernel: The kernel is responsible for creating a bridge between the user and the devices, managing devices,
memory, permissions, and receiving commands and instructions from the user, in order to communicate to the 
device drivers the operations that need to be performed. It is also responsible for receiving and
interpreting the results of the commands and operations performed by the hardware, and directing them to the
correct software or output.

Driver is the program installed in the operating systems, responsible for receiving instruction from the kernel,
interpreting them and translating them into instructions that the device understands. The firmware then receives 
the instructions and performs the operations on the device.

Firmware is responsible for controlling the basic functioning the device, through instruction that the
device hardware understand. The firmware is responsible for controlling the basic operation of the device,
through instructions that the device's hardware understands. It controls the device's components and how they
behave, especially when it comes to the operations the device performs.

the firmware is stored inside the device itself, on a specific memory chip, in a non-volatile form, being the
memory type EEPROM or flash, i.e. it is not lost after reboots or formatting. The computer has a firmware that
is responsible for the basic operation of the devices, mainly for identifying and booting them, so that it can
also start the bootloader that is on a partition of a specific storage device, for example, and thus start
the operating system. It also tests the integrity and basic functioning of devices and system components.

for managing the behavior and operation of devices on your computer,
especially when the computer boots. It also identifies storage devices so that you can choose the boot
partition to boot the operating system.

Commons firmwares in computers:

BIOS(Basic Input and Output System): It is a basic firmware used to configure device and system settings,
although it has many limitations such as:
Support just MBR(Master Boot Record) scheme partition, like this it only supports partitions of maximum 2 TB
and 4 logical or extended partitions.

EFI(Extensible Firmware Interface) and UEFI(Unified Extensible Firmware Interface): EFI is a firmware that has
more compatibilities, functionalities and capabilities compared with the BIOS.
UEFI is a standard version of EFI, but has one more feature such as: startup partition table and GPT.
A partition scheme that supports partitions with more than 2 tb and 128 logical and extended partitions.

devices of storage devices, as: SSD and HD:
Primary, logical and extended partitions:
Primary partitions are partitions that the firmware can boot, they are used to store the bootloader or
operating systems themselves.

An extended partition acts as a container for the logical partitions. It does not have a file system and 
cannot be used to boot, it is used to create and store logical partitions, which can be used to store files,
but are generally not used to boot.

Logical partitions are partitions created by the extended partition, they store data and have a file system 
just like other primary partitions, but generally cannot be used for booting.

GPT(GUID Partition Table): is a requirement for using UEFI Bootloader. GPT partition table uses GUID to 
identify storage devices, it has the capacity of create 128 partitions in device storage,
in addition to support partition larger the 2TB.

MBR(Master Boot Record): Is compatible with BIOS and supports only 4 logical partitions of up to 2 tb max.

File system of partitions:
These are the data structures that the operating system uses to manage partitions.
The file system determines how data is organized, accesed, and managed within that specific partition of a
disk. The file system is reponsible per: data organization, file naming, space management, access control,
data integrity and security.
some are:
ext4: EXT4(Fouther Extended Filesystem) is the file system  default used in many linux distributions.
The ext4 is the sucessor from file system ext3, the ext4 it has fatures better such as larger file sizes,
better performace, capabilities of jounaling i.e keep track of changes not commited in the file system main,
save the logs, data or metadata from the not commited changes.

FAT 16/32: FAT(File Allocation Table) is a file system widely compatible with several operational systems,
commonly used by removable storage devices. Exist others variations of the FAT such as FAT32, the FAT32 was
created to replace the FAT16, he support only partitions up to 4 GB, but with widely compatibility with
various operational systems such as windows, linux and macOS. exFAT was created to overcome some problems
from FAT32 such as the capacity of supported memory between others. The exFAT has greater capacity of storage
but a slightly less compatibility with other operational systems.

NTFS: NTFS(New Technology File System) is the file system used by windows. He it has capabilites such as
large files, journaling to enhance data integrity and security, encryption, file permissions.
The NTFS is natively compatible with linux or macOS, but it can be read and used through drivers and tools.

Exist several others file systems used by operational system interact and storage data in storage devices,
with specific features for each purpose of use.

GRUB: It is a bootloader manager that can be used to manipulate different bootloaders from different operating
systems. 

initramfs: Is a temporary file system initialized by the kernel, used to load the scripts, modules and drivers
needed to recognize devices and thus mount the real root partition with the correct file system. After the root
partition is mounted, "init" is started, which is a symbolic link to the system initializer. 

Inicializadores de sistema: The systemd is responsible for initializing processes, daemons and basic services
needed for the system to function, such as authentication services, networking, identifying and mounting 
devices and file systems, as well as graphical interface services, for example. It starts these processes 
and services according to the dependencies of other services or devices.

Systemd manages the state of devices and controls their operation via the Kernel, starting and controlling 
the lifecycle of processes and services. It also handles their permission and execution levels.
In addition, Systemd offers tools such as Systemctl, which allows you to manipulate its services and processes
using commands in the terminal. When Systemctl is used, it sends commands to Systemd, which interprets the 
instructions and makes appropriate calls to the Kernel. The Kernel, in turn, performs the necessary actions 
directly on specific devices, services or processes, depending on the operation requested.
